All Java concepts
1. What is a class?
 A class in Java is a logical template/blueprint to create objects that share common properties and methods.An object created from the class inherits its properties.
 
2.Features of java:
>object oriented:
>platform independent:Java is guaranteed to be write-once, run-anywhere language.On compilation Java program is compiled into bytecode. This bytecode is platform independent and can be run on any machine.
>security:Java program always runs in Java runtime environment with almost null interaction with system OS, hence it is more secure.
>multithreading: Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.
>Distributed: Programs can be designed to run on computer networks. Java has a special class library for communicating using TCP/IP protocols.

3.Difference between JDK , JRE , AND JVM?
JDK: The JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit that develops applications in Java. Along with JRE,
the JDK also consists of various development tools (Java Debugger, JavaDoc, compilers, etc.)
The JDK is platform-dependent. It means that for every different platform, you require a different JDK.
JDK = Development Tools + JRE (Java Runtime Environment).It has various development tools like the debugger, compiler, etc.

JRE:It is a type of software package that provides class libraries of Java, JVM, and various other components for running the applications written in Java programming.
JRE has a major responsibility for creating an environment for the execution of code. It is platform dependent. It rather contains various supporting files for JVM, and the class libraries that help JVM in running the program.
JRE = Libraries for running the application + JVM (Java Virtual Machine)
A developer can easily run a source code in JRE. JRE also contains various integration libraries like the JDBC (Java Database Connectivity), JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface), RMI (Remote Method Invocation), and many more.

JVM: JVM = Only the runtime environment that helps in executing the Java bytecode. JVM also provides some basic Java functions, such as garbage collection, security, memory management, and many more.
The JVM enables a user to run applications on their device or in a cloud environment. JVM can also execute a Java program line by line. It is thus also known as an interpreter.


4. Difference between method overloading and overriding?
>>>
5.What is polymorphism?
Polymorphism in Java is a concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways.
There are two types of polymorphism in Java: compile-time polymorphism and runtime polymorphism. We can perform polymorphism in java by method overloading and method overriding.
Ex . Bank b  = new ICICI(); parent object is formed by calling sub class constructor
And it executes the thing defined in the sub class/derived class
Oveeriding is dynamic binding
So this is called compile-time polymorphism or static or early binding. Compile-time polymorphism is achieved through method overloading.It has nothing to do with inheritence.
 
6.What is abstraction?
abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details from the user, only the functionality will be provided to the user. 
In other words, the user will have the information on what the object does instead of how it does it.
In Java, abstraction is achieved using Abstract classes and interfaces.
[Abstract class]
Ex: Employee is abstract class , Salary class is derived class
You cannot create/initiate an employee class but you can initiate a derived class, and all the parent methods will work;
(****We gotta try doing run time polymorphism in such case though)
[Abstract method]
Or you can do abstract method, you cannot call that method, but u can iniate that class' object bc the class is not absttract only the method.
Derived class objects can implement the method.






